Fighter:

Fighters start with a decent weapon, a suit of armour
and a shield. They have a good general grounding in
the arts of fighting.
/Fighter

Gladiator:

The Gladiator is trained to fight in the ring, and so
is an expert in the art of fighting but is not so good
at anything else. In fact, Gladiators are pretty
terrible at anything except bashing monsters with
heavy things.

They start with a nasty weapon, a small shield,
and armour.
/Gladiator

Berserker:

Berserkers are hardy warriors who worship Trog the
Wrathful, from whom they get the power to go berserk
(as well as a number of other powers should they
prove worthy) but who forbids the use of spell magic.

They enter the dungeon with an axe and a set of
leather armour.
/Berseker

Hunter:

The Hunter is a type of fighter who specialises in
missile weapons.

A Hunter starts with a bow and some arrows, as well
as a hunting knife and a set of leathers.
/Hunter

Monk:

The Monk is a member of an ascetic order dedicated
to the perfection of one's body and soul through the
discipline of the martial arts. Monks start with very
little equipment, but can survive without the weighty
weapons and spellbooks needed by other classes.
/Monk

Thief:

The Thief is one of the trickiest classes to play.
Thieves start out with a large variety of useful
skills, and need to use all of them to survive.

Thieves start with a short sword, some throwing
darts, and light armour.
/Thief

Assassin:

An Assassin is a thief who is especially good
at killing. Assassins are like thieves in most
respects, but are more dangerous in combat.
/Thief

Stalker:

The stalker is an assassin who has trained in
the use of poison magic.
/Stalker

Crusader:

The Crusader is a decent fighter who can use the
magical art of enchantment to become more dangerous
in battle.

Crusaders start out lightly armed and
armoured, but equipped with a book of martial spells.
/Crusader

Reaver:

Reavers are warriors who learn the magics of
destruction in order to complement their deadliness
in hand combat.

/Death Knight:

The Death Knight is a fighter who aligns him or 
herself with the powers of death. There are two 
types of Death Knights:

those who worship and draw their abilities from the
Demon-God Yredelemnul,

and those who study the fearsome arts of necromancy.
/Death Knight

Chaos Knight:

The Chaos Knight is a fighter who chooses to serve
one of the fearsome and unpredictable Gods of Chaos.

He or she has two choices: Xom or Makhleb.

Xom is a very unpredictable (and possibly psychotic)
creature who rewards or punishes according to whim.

Makhleb the Destroyer is a more purposeful God, who
appreciates destruction and offers a variety of very
violent powers to the faithful.
/Chaos Knigh

Paladin:

The Paladin is a servant of the Shining One, and has
many of the abilities of the Fighter and the Priest.

He or she enters the dungeon with a sword, a shield,
a robe, and a healing potion.
/Paladin

Priest:

Priests serve either Zin, the ancient and revered
God of Law, or the rather less pleasant Death-God
Yredelemnul.

Although priests enter the dungeon with a mace
(as well as a priestly robe and a few healing
potions), this is purely the result of an archaic
tradition the reason for which has been lost in the
mists of time. Priests are not in any way
restricted in their choice of weapon skills.
/Priest

Healer:

The Healer is a priest of Elyvilon. Healers begin
with minor healing powers, but can gain far
greater abilities in the long run.
/Healer

Magician:

The magician is not a class, but a type of class.
A magician is the best at using magic. Magicians
start with a dagger, a robe, and a book of
spells which should see them through the first
several levels. There are various kinds
of magicians:
/Magician

Wizard:

A Wizard is a magician who does not specialise in
any area of magic.

Wizards start with a variety of magical skills and the
magic dart spell in memory.
/Wizard

Conjurer:

The Conjurer specialises in the violent and 
destructive magic of conjuration spells. 
Like the Wizard, the Conjurer starts with 
the magic dart spell.
/Conjurer

Enchanter:

The Enchanter specialises in the more subtle area
of enchantment magic.

Although not as directly powerful as conjurations,
high-level enchantments offer a wide range of very
handy effects. The Enchanter begins with lightly
enchanted weapons and armour, but no direct damage
spell (since enchantments does not deal with direct
attacks). Instead they begin  with the
"confusing touch" spell and some enchanted darts,
which should help them out until they can use the
higher level enchantment spells.
/Enchanter

Summoner:

The Summoner specialises in calling creatures
from this and other worlds to give assistance.
Although they can at first summon only very wimpy
creatures, the more advanced summoning spells allow
summoners to call on such powers as elementals and
demons.
/Summoner

Necromancer:

The Necromancer is a magician who specialises in
the less pleasant side of magic. Necromantic spells
are a varied bunch, but many involve some degree
of risk or harm to the caster.
/Necromancer


Fire Elementalis:

Fire Elementalists are magicians who specialise
in one of the four types of elemental magic: fire
/Fire Elementalist


Ice Elementalist:

Ice Elementalists are magicians who specialise 
in one of the four types of elemental magic: ice
/Ice Elementalist


Air Elementalist:

Air Elementalists are magicians who specialise 
in one of the four types of elemental magic: air
/Air Elementalist


Earth Elemental:

Earth Elementalists are magicians who specialise
in one of the four types of elemental magic: earth
/Fire Elementalist

Venom Mage:

Venom mages specialise in poison magic, which is
extremely useful in the  shallower levels of the
dungeon where few creatures are immune to it. Poison
is especially effective when used against insects.
/Venom Mage

Transmuter:

Transmuters specialise in transmigrations, and can
cause strange changes in themselves and others.
/Transmuter

Warper:

Warpers specialise in translocations, and are experts
in travelling long distances and positioning 
themselves precisely.
/Warper

Wanderer:

Wanderers are people who have not learned a specific
trade. Instead, they've travelled around become a
"Jack-of-all-trades, master of none".

They start the game with a large assortment of skills
and maybe some small items they picked up along the
way, but other than that they're pretty much on their
own.  Non-human wanderers might not even know which
skills they have (since they haven't quite learned
enough for one full level), and therefore make for
an additional challenge... although, you
shouldn't expect human wanderers to be easy either

(this class is typically harder to play than the 
other classes).
/Wanderer  