----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                BEGINING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

When you begin the game, a menu is shown to you.
It list the actual savegames you have.

With the cursors, you can choose one of them an then
press:

.- 'D' to delete the game
.- 'N' to begin a new game
.- Enter to continue the game

If you press enter, you must choose one specie and
a class or profession.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            CHARACTER SPECIES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

You have a number of different species to choose from. This affects several
characteristics:

     o  Your choice of classes
     o  Your initial attributes
     o  Occasional bonus points added to some abilities
     o  The amount of hit points you get each level
     o  The amount of magic points you get each level
     o  Your initial equipment
     o  Your rate of level advancement
     o  Your rate of skill advancement
     o  Various special abilities and powers

Note: Some species are slower than humans in most/all skills.  For some
classes these races may seem to have very few skills because they haven't
quite earned the first level of several of their skills (Centaurs are
notable in this regard... although non-human Wanderers can appear to
start with no apparent skills at all).  This isn't a bug or an oversight,
these species are just particularly weaker than humans at these classes.

If you practise the skills you think or know are missing early on, they
should pick up the remaining skills very quickly (and their training will be
more complete).


The species:

Human:

  Humans tend to be hardworking and industrious, and learn new things quickly.
  The human race is the most versatile of all the species available to
  players. Humans advance quickly in levels and have equal abilities in all
  skills. Humans can also be of any class.

Elves:

  There are a number of distinct races of elf in the world. Elves are all
  physically slight but long-lived people, quicker-witted than humans but
  sometimes slower to learn new things. Elves are especially good at using
  those skills which require a degree of finesse, such as stealth, sword-
  fighting and archery, but tend to be poor at using brute force and inelegant
  forms of combat. They find heavy armour uncomfortable, and make the finest,
  lightest armours to be found anywhere. Elves are particularly good at using
  elven weapons.

  Due to their fey natures, all elves are good at using enchantments and air
  elemental magic and most are poor at invoking the powers of earth and death
  (necromancy).

  Those of the most common strain are referred to simply as elves or, when
  they're not listening, as common elves. Common elves have good intelligence
  and dexterity, but suffer a bit in strength. They have slightly fewer HP and
  slightly more magic than humans, and advance in experience a bit more
  slowly.

  High elves are a tall and powerful elven race who advance in levels very
  slowly, requiring half again as much experience as do humans. They share the
  same attributes as common elves in most respects, but their strengths and
  weaknesses tend to be more pronounced.

  Grey elves also advance slowly, but not as slowly as high elves. They excel
  at using short and long swords and bows, but are poor at other fighting
  skills. They are excellent at all forms of magic except for necromancy.

  The deep elves are an elven race who long ago fled the overworld to live in
  darkness underground. There they developed their mental powers, evolving a
  natural gift for all forms of magic (including necromancy and earth magic),
  and adapted physically to their new environment, becoming shorter and weaker
  than other elves and losing all colouration. They are poor at hand-to-hand
  combat but excellent at fighting from a distance.

  Sludge elves are a somewhat degenerate race of elves. They are mirror images
  of normal elves in some respects: they have no special proficiency with bows
  or swords (long or short), nor do they have any aptitude in the traditional
  areas of high elven magic (enchantments, conjurations and divinations). On
  the other hand, they are superlative transmuters, and are comfortable
  dabbling in necromantic, poison and elemental magic. As fighters they are
  often more dangerous unarmed than armed. They advance in level slightly
  faster than their common brethren.

Dwarves:

  Dwarves are short, hardy people. They love to fight, and often venture forth
  from their subterranean cities to seek fame and fortune through battle.
  Their armour and weapons are very well-crafted and much more durable than
  the products of lesser artisans. Dwarves are particularly dangerous when
  using dwarven weaponry.

  Hill dwarves are extremely robust but are poor at using magic. They are
  excellent at hand combat, especially favouring axes or bludgeoning weapons,
  and are good at using armour and shields, but are poor at missile combat or
  at using polearms (which are usually too big for them to wield comfortably).
  The only forms of magic which they can use with even a minimal degree of
  aptitude are earth, fire and conjurations. They advance in levels at a
  similar rate to common elves.

  Mountain dwarves come from the larger, more civilised communities of the
  mountains. They advance slightly more quickly than hill dwarves and are
  almost as robust while having similar aptitudes, but are slightly worse at
  fighting while being slightly better at more civilised pursuits.

Halflings:

  Halflings, who are named for being about half the size of a human, live in
  small villages. They live simple lives, and have simple interests. Some
  times a particularly restless halfling will leave his or her village in
  search of adventure.

  Halflings are very small and are among the least robust of any character
  species. Although only average at most fighting skills, they can use short
  blades well and are good at all forms of missile combat. They are also very
  stealthy and good at dodging and stabbing, but are poor at magic (except
  enchantments and, for some reason, translocations). They advance in levels
  as rapidly as humans. Halflings cannot wield large weapons.

Gnomes:

  Gnomes are an underground-dwelling race of creatures, related to the
  dwarves but even more closely in touch with the earth.

  They are quite small, and share many of their characteristics with
  halflings (except for the great agility), although they advance slightly
  more slowly in experience levels. They are okay at most skills, but
  excellent at earth elemental magic and very poor at air magic.

  Occasionally they can use their empathy with the earth to sense their
  surroundings; this ability increases in power as they gain experience
  levels.

Orcs:

  Hill orcs are orcs from the upper world who, jealous of the riches which
  their cousins the cave orcs possess below the ground, descend in search of
  plunder and adventure.

  Hill orcs are as robust as the hill dwarves, but have very low reserves of
  magical energy. Their forte is brute-force fighting, and they are skilled at
  using most hand weapons (with the exception of short blades, at which they
  are only fair), although they are not particularly good at using missile
  weapons. They prefer to use their own weapons. Orcs are poor at using most
  types of magic with the exception of conjurations, necromancy, and earth and
  fire elemental magic. They advance as quickly as humans.

Kobolds:

  Kobolds are small, ugly creatures with few redeeming features. They are not
  the sort of people you would want to spend much time with, unless you happen
  to be a kobold yourself.

  They have poor abilities and have similar aptitudes to halflings, without
  the excellent agility. However, they are better than halflings at using
  some types of magic, particularly summonings and necromancy. They often
  live as scavengers, surviving on carrion, but are carnivorous and can
  only eat meat. They advance in levels as quickly as humans.

The Undead:

  As creatures brought back from beyond the grave they are naturally immune to
  poisons and negative energy, have little warmth left to be affected by cold,
  and are not susceptible to reductions in their physical or mental abilities.

  There are two type of undead available to players: Mummies and Ghouls.

Mummies:

  Mummies are undead creatures who travel into the depths in search of
  revenge, redemption, or just because they want to.

  Mummies progress very slowly in level, half again as slow as humans, and in
  all skills except fighting, spellcasting and necromancy. As they increase in
  level they become increasingly in touch with the powers of death, but cannot
  use some types of necromancy which only affect living creatures. The side
  effects of necromantic magic tend to be relatively harmless to mummies.
  However, their dessicated bodies are highly flammable. They also do not need
  to eat or drink, and in any case are incapable of doing so.

Ghouls:

  Ghouls are horrible undead creatures, slowly rotting away. Although ghouls
  can sleep in their graves for years on end, when they rise to walk among the
  living they must eat flesh to survive. Raw flesh is preferred, especially
  rotting or tainted meat, and ghouls gain strength from consuming it.

  They aren't very good at doing most things, although they make decent
  fighters and, due to their contact with the grave, can use ice, earth and
  death magic without too many difficulties.

Naga:

  The Naga are a race of hybrids: humanoid from the waist up, with a large
  snake tail instead of legs.

  They are reasonably good at most things and advance in experience levels at
  a decent rate. They are naturally immune to poisons, can see invisible
  creatures, and have tough skin, but their tails are relatively slow and
  cannot move them around as quickly as can other creatures' legs (this only
  affects their movement rate; all other actions are at normal speed). Their
  body shape also prevents them from gaining full protection from most armour.

  Every now and then, a naga can spit poison; the range, accuracy and damage
  of this poison increases with the naga's experience level.

Ogres and Ogre Mages:

  Ogres are huge, chunky creatures related to orcs. They are terrible monsters
  who usually live to do nothing more than smash, smash, smash, and destroy.

  They have great physical strength, but are bad at almost everything except
  fighting and learn quite slowly. Because of their large size they can only
  wear loose robes, cloaks and animal skins. Although ogres can eat almost
  anything, their size means that they need to do so more frequently than
  smaller folk.

  Ogre-mages are a separate race of ogres who are unique among the beefier
  species in their ability to use magic, especially enchantments. Although
  slighter than their common ogre relatives they nevertheless have great
  strength and can survive a lot of punishment. They advance in level as
  slowly as high elves.

Trolls:

  Trolls are like ogres, but even nastier. They have thick, knobbly skins of
  any colour from putrid green to mucky brown and their mouths are full of
  ichor-dripping fangs.

  They can rip creatures apart with their claws, and regenerate very quickly
  from even the most terrible wounds. They learn very slowly indeed - even
  more slowly than high elves - and need a great amount of food to survive.

Draconians:

  Draconians are a race of human-dragon hybrids: humanoid in form and
  approximately human-sized, with wings, tails and scaly skins. Draconians
  start out in an immature form with brown scales, but as they grow in
  power they take on a variety of colours.

  Some types of draconians have breath weapons. Draconians advance very slowly
  in level, but are reasonably good at all skills but armour (most types of
  which they cannot wear) and missile weapons.

Centaurs:

  The Centaurs are another race of hybrid creatures: horses with a human
  torso. They usually live in forests, surviving by hunting.

  Centaurs can move very quickly on their four legs, and are excellent
  with bows and other missile weapons; they are also reasonable at the
  Fighting skill while being slow learners at specific weapon skills. They
  advance quite slowly in experience level and are rather sub-average at
  using magic. Due to their large bulk, they need a little extra food to
  survive.

Demigods:

  Demigods are mortals (humans, orcs or elves, for example) with some divine
  or angelic ancestry, however distant; they can be created by a number of
  processes including magical experiments and the time-honoured practice of
  interplanar miscegenation.

  Demigods look more or less like members of their mortal part's race, but
  have excellent abilities (strength, int, dex) and are extremely robust; they
  can also draw on great supplies of magical energy. On the downside they
  advance very slowly in experience, gain skills slightly less quickly than
  humans, and due to their status cannot worship the various Gods and Powers
  available to other classes of being.

Spriggans:

  Spriggans are small magical creatures distantly related to elves. They
  love to frolic and cast mischevious spells.

  They are poor fighters, have little physical resilience, and are terrible at
  destructive magic - conjurations, summonings, necromancy and elemental
  spells. On the other hand, they are excellent at other forms of magic and
  are very good at moving silently and quickly. So great is their speed that a
  spriggan can keep pace with a centaur.

Minotaurs:

  The minotaur is yet another hybrid - a human body with a bovine head. It
  delves into the Dungeon because of its instinctive love of twisting
  passageways.

  Minotaurs are extremely good at all forms of physical combat, but are
  awful at using any type of magic. They can wear all armour except for
  some headgear.

Demonspawn:

  Demonspawn are horrible half-mortal, half-infernal creatures - the flip side
  of the Demigods. Demonspawn can be created in any number of ways: magical
  experiments, breeding, unholy pacts, etc. Although many demonspawn may be
  indistinguishable from those of pure mortal stock, they often grow horns,
  scales or other unusual features. Powerful members of this class of beings
  also develop a range of unholy abilities, which are listed as mutations (and
  can sometimes be activated with the 'a' command).

  Demonspawn advance quite slowly in experience and learn most skills at about
  the same rate as do Demigods. However, they are a little better at fighting
  and much better at conjurations, summonings, necromancy and invocations.

Kenku:

  The Kenku are an ancient and feared race of bird-people with a legendary
  propensity for violence. Basically humanoid with bird-like heads and clawed
  feet, the kenku can wear all types of armour except helmets and boots.
  Despite their lack of wings, powerful kenku can fly and very powerful
  members of this race can stay in the air for as long as they wish to do so.

  They are experts at all forms of fighting, including the magical arts of
  combat (conjurations, summonings and, to a lesser extent, necromancy). They
  are good at air and fire elemental magic, but poor at ice and earth magic.
  Kenku do not appreciate any form of servitude, and so are poor at using
  invocations. Their light avian bodies cannot sustain a great deal of injury.

Merfolk:

  The Merfolk are a hybrid race of half-human, half-fish that typically
  live in the oceans and rivers and seldom come onto the land.  The merfolk
  aren't as limited on land as some myths suggest, their tails will quickly
  reform into legs once they leave the water (and, likewise, their legs
  will quickly reform into a tail should they ever enter water).  Their
  agility is often misjudged, and they tend to be surprising nimble on
  land as well as in the water.  Experts at swimming they need not fear
  drowning as they can quickly slip out of any encumbering armour during
  the transformation into their half-fish form.

  The Merfolk have developed their martial arts strongly on thrusting
  and grappling, since those are the most efficient ways to fight
  underwater.  They, therefore, prefer polearms and short swords above
  all other weapons, although they can also use longer swords quite well.

  As spellcasters, they tend to be quite good in specific areas.  Their
  mystical relationship with water makes it easier for them to use
  divination, poison, and ice magics... which use water occasionally
  as a material component.  The legendary water magic of the merfolk
  was lost in ancient times, but some of that affinity still remains.
  The instability of their own morphogenic matrix has made them very
  accomplished transmuters, but most other magics seem foreign to them.

Note:

  Some species have special abilities which can be accessed by the 'a'
  abilities menu. Some also have physical characteristics which allow them
  to make extra attacks using the Unarmed Combat skill.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            CHARACTER CLASSES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

In your quest, you play as one of a number of different types of characters.
Although each has its own strengths and weaknesses, some are definitely
easier than others, at least to begin with. The best classes for a beginner
are probably Gladiators, fighters and Berserkers; if you really want to play
a magician, try a Conjurer. Each class starts out with a different set of
skills and items, but from there you can shape them as you will.

Fighters:

  Fighters start with a decent weapon, a suit of armour and a shield. They
  have a good general grounding in the arts of fighting.

Gladiators:

  The Gladiator is trained to fight in the ring, and so is an expert in the
  art of fighting but is not so good at anything else. In fact, Gladiators are
  pretty terrible at anything except bashing monsters with heavy things. They
  start with a nasty weapon, a small shield, and armour.

Berserkers:

  Berserkers are hardy warriors who worship Trog the Wrathful, from whom they
  get the power to go berserk (as well as a number of other powers should they
  prove worthy) but who forbids the use of spell magic. They enter the dungeon
  with an axe and a set of leather armour.

Hunters:

  The Hunter is a type of fighter who specialises in missile weapons. A Hunter
  starts with a bow and some arrows, as well as a hunting knife and a set of
  leathers.

Monks:

  The Monk is a member of an ascetic order dedicated to the perfection of
  one's body and soul through the discipline of the martial arts. Monks start
  with very little equipment, but can survive without the weighty weapons and
  spellbooks needed by other classes.

Thieves:

  The Thief is one of the trickiest classes to play. Thieves start out with a
  large variety of useful skills, and need to use all of them to survive.
  Thieves start with a short sword, some throwing darts, and light armour.

Assassin:

  An Assassin is a thief who is especially good at killing. Assassins are like
  thieves in most respects, but are more dangerous in combat.

Stalkers:

  The stalker is an assassin who has trained in the use of poison magic.

Crusaders:

  The Crusader is a decent fighter who can use the magical art of enchantment
  to become more dangerous in battle. Crusaders start out lightly armed and
  armoured, but equipped with a book of martial spells.

Reavers:

  Reavers are warriors who learn the magics of destruction in order to
  complement their deadliness in hand combat.

Death Knights:

  The Death Knight is a fighter who aligns him or herself with the powers of
  death. There are two types of Death Knights: those who worship and draw
  their abilities from the Demon-God Yredelemnul, and those who study the
  fearsome arts of necromancy.

Chaos Knights:

  The Chaos Knight is a fighter who chooses to serve one of the fearsome and
  unpredictable Gods of Chaos. He or she has two choices: Xom or Makhleb.
  Xom is a very unpredictable (and possibly psychotic) entity who rewards
  or punishes according to whim. Makhleb the Destroyer is a more purposeful
  God, who appreciates destruction and offers a variety of very violent
  powers to the faithful.

Paladins:

  The Paladin is a servant of the Shining One, and has many of the abilities
  of the Fighter and the Priest. He or she enters the dungeon with a sword,
  a shield, a robe, and a healing potion.

Priests:

   Priests serve either Zin, the ancient and revered God of Law, or the
   rather less pleasant Death-God Yredelemnul. Although priests enter the
   dungeon with a mace (as well as a priestly robe and a few healing
   potions), this is purely the result of an archaic tradition the reason
   for which has been lost in the mists of time; Priests are not in any way
   restricted in their choice of weapon skills.

Healers:

  The Healer is a priest of Elyvilon. Healers begin with minor healing
  powers, but can gain far greater abilities in the long run.

Magicians:

  The magician is not a class, but a type of class. A magician is the best
  at using magic. Magicians start with a dagger, a robe, and a book of
  spells which should see them through the first several levels. There are
  various kinds of magicians:

  A Wizard is a magician who does not specialise in any area of magic.
  Wizards start with a variety of magical skills and the magic dart spell in
  memory.

  The Conjurer specialises in the violent and destructive magic of
  conjuration spells. Like the Wizard, the Conjurer starts with the magic
  dart spell.

  The Enchanter specialises in the more subtle area of enchantment magic.
  Although not as directly powerful as conjurations, high-level enchantments
  offer a wide range of very handy effects. The Enchanter begins with
  lightly enchanted weapons and armour, but no direct damage spell (since
  enchantments does not deal with direct attacks).  Instead they begin
  with the "confusing touch" spell and some enchanted darts, which should
  help them out until they can use the higher level enchantment spells.

  The Summoner specialises in calling creatures from this and other worlds
  to give assistance. Although they can at first summon only very wimpy
  creatures, the more advanced summoning spells allow summoners to call on
  such powers as elementals and demons.

  The Necromancer is a magician who specialises in the less pleasant side of
  magic. Necromantic spells are a varied bunch, but many involve some degree
  of risk or harm to the caster.

  Elementalists are magicians who specialise in one of the four types of
  elemental magic: air, fire, earth, or ice.

    Fire Magic tends towards destructive conjurations.

    Ice Magic offers a balance between destructive conjurations and
    protective enchantments.

    Air Magic provides many useful enchantments in addition to some
    unique destructive capabilities.

    Earth Magic is a mixed bag, with destructive, defensive and utility
    spells available.

  Venom mages specialise in poison magic, which is extremely useful in the
  shallower levels of the dungeon where few creatures are immune to it. Poison
  is especially effective when used against insects.

  Transmuters specialise in transmigrations, and can cause strange changes
  in themselves and others.

  Warpers specialise in translocations, and are experts in travelling long
  distances and positioning themselves precisely.

Wanderers:

  Wanderers are people who have not learned a specific trade.  Instead,
  they've travelled around becoming "Jacks-of-all-trades, master of none".
  They start the game with a large assortment of skills and maybe some
  small items they picked up along the way, but other than that they're
  pretty much on their own.  Non-human wanderers might not even know which
  skills they have (since they haven't quite learned enough for one full
  level), and therefore make for an additional challenge.  You shouldn't
  expect human wanderers to be easy either, as this class is typically
  harder to play than the other classes.