----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              	  OBJECTIVE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
You goal is to locate the Orb of Zot, which is held somewhere deep beneath the
world's surface. The Orb is an ancient and incredibly powerful artefact, and
the legends promise great things for anyone brave enough to extract it from
the fearsome Dungeon. Some say it will grant immortality or even godhood to
the one who carries it into the sunlight; many undead creatures seek it in the
hope that it will restore them to life. But then, some people will believe
anything. Good luck!

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          EXPLORING THE DUNGEON
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can make your character walk around with the numeric keypad (turn numlock
off) or the "Rogue" keys (hjklbnyu). If this is too slow, you can make your
character walk repeatedly by typing shift and a direction. They will walk in
that direction until any of a number of things happen: a hostile monster is
visible on the screen, a message is sent to the message window for any reason,
you type a key, or you are about to step on anything other than normal floor
or an undiscovered trap and it is not your first move of the long walk. Note
that this is functionally equivalent to just pressing the direction key
several times.

If you press shift and '5' on the numeric keypad (or just the number '5' on
the keyboard) you rest for 100 turns or until your hit points or magic return
to full, whichever is sooner. You can rest for just one turn by pressing '.',
delete, 's', or '5' on the keypad. Whenever you are resting, you are assumed
to be observing your surroundings, so you have a chance of detecting any traps
or secret doors adjacent to you.

The section of the viewing window which is coloured (with the '@' representing
you at the centre) is what you can see around you. The dark grey around it is
the parts of the level which you have visited, but cannot currently see. The
'x' command lets you move the cursor around to get a description of the
various dungeon features, and typing '?' when the cursor is over a monster
brings up a short description of that monster. You can get a map of the whole
level (which shows where you've already been) by typing the 'X' key. This map
specially colour-codes stairs and known traps, even if something is on top of
them.

You can make your way between levels by using staircases, which appear as '>'
(down) and '<' (up), by pressing the '>' or '<' keys. If you ascend an up
staircase on level one, you will leave the dungeon forever; if you are
carrying the magical Orb of Zot, you win the game by doing this.

Occasionally you will find an archway; these lead to special places like
shops, magical labyrinths, and Hell. Depending on which type of archway it is,
you can enter it by typing '<' or '>'.

Doors can be opened with the 'o' command and closed with the 'c' command.
Pressing control plus a direction also opens doors. If there is no closed door
in the indicated space, you will attempt to attack any monster which may be
standing there (this is the only way to attack a friendly creature hand-to-
hand). If there is no creature there, you will attempt to disarm any trap in
the target square. If there is apparently nothing there you will still attack
it, just in case there's something invisible lurking around.

A variety of dangerous and irritating traps are hidden around the dungeon.
Traps look like normal floor until discovered. Some traps can be disarmed with
the control-direction commands

When you are in a shop, you are given a list of the shopkeeper's stock from
which to choose, and a list of instructions. Unfortunately the shopkeepers all
have an enterprise bargaining agreement with the dungeon teamsters union which
prevents them using non-union labour to obtain stock, so you can't sell
anything in a shop (but what shopkeeper would trust a scummy adventurer like
you, anyway?).



----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                EXPERIENCE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

When you kill monsters, you gain experience points (xp) (you also receive
one half experience for monsters killed by friendly creatures). When you
get enough xp, you gain an experience level, making your character more
powerful. As they gain levels, characters gain more hit points, magic
points, and spell levels.

Additionally, the experience you gain is used for your experience pool.
This pool of points is used up whenever you practice a skill.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  SKILLS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Your character has a number of skills which affect his or her ability to
perform certain tasks. You can see your character's skills by pressing the 'm'
key; the higher the level of a skill, the better you are at it. Every time
your character gains experience points, those points become available to
increase skills. You convert experience points into skill levels by practising
the skill in question (eg fight with a certain type of weapon, cast a certain
type of spell, or walk around wearing light armour to practise stealth). The
amount of unassigned experience points is shown next to your experience total
on the main screen as well as on the skills screen, and the number in blue
next to each skill counts down from 9 to 0 as you get closer to gaining a
level in that skill.

You can elect not to practise a particular skill by selecting it in the skill
screen (making it turn dark grey). This means that you will be less likely to
increase that skill when you practise it (and will also not spend as many
experience points on it). This can be useful for skills like stealth which use
up points whenever you move. It can also be used on a specific weapon skill if
you want to spend more points on Fighting, and similarly with magic skills and
Spellcasting.

The species you have chosen for your character has a significant effect on
your rate of advancement in each skill. Some races are very good at some
skills and poor at others. If your character is naturally quick to learn a
skill, they will require less experience and take less time to advance in it;
being bad at a skill has the opposite result.

Here is a description of the skills you may have:


Fighting skills:

  Fighting is the basic skill used in hand-to-hand combat, and applies no
  matter which weapon your character is wielding (if any). It is also the
  skill which determines the number of hit points your character gets as
  they increase in level (note that this is calculated so that you don't get
  a long run advantage by starting out with a high fighting skill).

  Weapon skills affect your ability to fight with specific melee weapons.
  Weapon skills include:

     o  Short Blades
     o  Long Blades
     o  Maces & Flails
     o  Axes
     o  Staves
     o  Polearms

  If you are already good at a weapon, say a long sword, and you practise
  for a while with similar weapon such as a short sword, your practise will
  be speeded up (and will require less experience) until both skills are
  equal. Similar types of weapons include:

     o  Short Blades and Long Blades
     o  Maces & Flails and Axes
     o  Polearms and Axes
     o  Staves and Polearms

  Being good at a specific weapon improves the speed with which you can use
  it by about 10% every two skill levels. Although lighter weapons are
  easier to use initially, as they strike quickly and accurately, heavier
  weapons increase in damage potential very quickly as you improve your
  skill with them.

  Unarmed Combat is a special fighting skill. It allows your character to
  make a powerful attack when unarmed and also to make special secondary
  attacks (and increases the power of those attacks for characters who get
  them anyway). You can practise Unarmed Combat by attacking empty-handed,
  and it is also exercised when you make a secondary attack (a kick, punch
  etc). Unarmed combat is particularly difficult to use in combination with
  heavy armour, and characters wearing a shield or wielding a two-handed
  weapon other than a staff lose the powerful punch attack.

Throwing skills:

  Throwing is the basic skill used when throwing things, and there are a
  number of individual weapon skills for missile weapons as well:

     o  Darts
     o  Bows
     o  Crossbows
     o  Slings

Magic skills:

  Spellcasting is the basic skill for magic use, and affects your reserves of
  magical energy in the same way that Fighting affects your hit points. Every
  time you increase your spellcasting skill you gain some magic points and
  spell levels. Spellcasting is a very difficult skill to learn, and requires
  a large amount of practice and experience.

  Only those characters with at least one magic skill at level one or above
  can learn magical spells. If your character has no magic skills, he or she
  can learn the basic principles of the hermetic arts by reading and reciting
  the spells inscribed on magical scrolls (this stops being useful once you
  reach level one in Spellcasting).

  There are also individual skills for each different type of magic; the
  higher the skill, the more powerful the spell. Multidisciplinary spells use
  an average of the two or three skills.

  Elemental magic is a special case. When you practise an elemental magic
  skill (fire, ice, air or earth magic) you will improve much less quickly
  than normal if you already have one or more elemental magic skills higher
  than the one you are practising. This is especially true if those skills are
  'opposed' to the one you're practising: fire and ice are mutually opposed,
  as are earth and air.

  Say you have level 2 fire magic, level 4 ice magic, and level 1 air magic.
  Practising ice magic won't be a problem. Practising air magic will be a bit
  slow, as you have other elemental skills at higher levels. Practising fire
  magic will be very slow, as you have a higher level in ice magic. Right?

Miscellaneous skills:

Armour:

  Having a high Armour skill means that you are used to wearing heavy armour,
  allowing you to move more freely and gain more protection.

Dodging:

  When you are wearing light armour, a high dodging skill helps you evade
  attacks.

Stealth:

  Helps you avoid being noticed. Try not to wear heavy armour or be encumbered
  if you want to be stealthy. Big creatures (like trolls and ogres) are bad at
  stealth.

Stabbing:

  Lets you make a very powerful first strike against a sleeping/resting
  monster who hasn't noticed you yet. This is most effective with a dagger,
  slightly less effective with a short sword, and less useful (although by
  no means of negligible effect) with any other weapon.

Shields:

  Affects the amount of protection you gain by using a shield, and the degree
  to which it hinders you.

Traps & Doors:

  Affects your ability to notice hidden traps and doors and to disarm traps
  when you find them. With this skill at a high level you will often find
  hidden things without actively looking for them.

Invocations:

  An easy-to-learn skill which affects your ability to call on your God for
  aid. Those skilled at invoking have reduced fail rates and produce more
  powerful effects. The Invocations skill affects your supply of magic in a
  similar way to the Spellcasting skill and to a greater extent, but the two
  are not cumulative - whichever gives the greater increase is used. Some
  Gods (such as Trog) do not require followers to learn this skill.

If your character does not have a particular skill, s/he can gain it by
practising as above.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               ABILITIES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Your character is further defined by his or her abilities, which initially
vary according to class and species.

Strength:

  Affects the amount of damage you do in combat, as well as how much stuff
  you can carry.

Intelligence:

  Affects how well you can cast spells as well as your ability to use some
  magical items.

Dexterity:

  Affects your accuracy in combat, your general effectiveness with missile
  weapons, your ability to dodge attacks aimed at you, and your ability to use
  thiefly skills such as backstabbing and disarming traps. Although your
  dexterity does not affect your evasion score (EV) directly, any calculation
  involving your EV score also takes account of your dexterity.

Armour Class:

  Also called AC, when something injures you, your AC reduces the amount of
  damage you suffer. The number next to your AC is a measure of how good your
  shield (if any) is at blocking attacks. In both cases, more is better.

Evasion:

  Also called EV, this helps you to avoid being hit by unpleasant things.

Gold:

  This is how much money you're carrying. Money adds to your final score,
  and can be used to purchase items in shops.

Magic Resistance:

  Affects your ability to resist the effects of enchantments and similar
  magic directed at you. Although your magic resistance increases with your
  level to an extent determined by your character's species, the creatures you
  will meet deeper in the dungeon are better at casting spells and are more
  likely to be able to affect you. MR is an internal variable, so you can't
  see what yours is.

Special Abilities:

  Sometimes characters will be able to use special abilities, for example
  the Naga's ability to spit poison or the magical power to turn invisible
  granted by a ring. These are accessed through the 'a' command.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               ITEMS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------


In the dungeons of Crawl there are many different kinds of normal and magical
artefacts to be found and used. Some of them are useful, some are nasty, and
some give great power, but at a price. Some items are unique; these have
interesting properties which can make your life rather bizarre for a while.
They all fall into several classes of items, each of which is used in a
different way. Here is a general list of what you might find in the course of
your adventures:

Weapons:

  These are rather important. You will find a variety of weapons in the
  dungeon, ranging from small and quick daggers to huge, cumbersome
  battleaxes and pole-arms. Each type of weapon does a differing amount of
  damage, has a different chance of hitting its target, and takes a
  different amount of time to swing. You should choose your weapons
  carefully; trying to hit a bat with a greatsword is about as clever as
  bashing a dragon with a club. For this reason it is wise to have a good
  mixture of weapon skills. Skills affect damage, accuracy and speed.

  Weapons can be enchanted; when they are identified, they have values which
  tell you how much more effective they are than an unenchanted version. The
  first number is the enchantment to-hit, which affects the weapon's
  accuracy, and the second is its damage enchantment; weapons which are not
  enchanted are simply '+0'. Some weapons also have special magical effects
  which make them very effective in certain situations. Some types of hand
  weapons (especially daggers, spears and hand axes) are quite effective
  when thrown.

  You can wield weapons with the 'w' command, which is a very quick action.
  If for some reason you want to go bare-handed, type 'w' followed by a
  hyphen ('-'). Note that weapons are not the only class of item which you
  can wield.

  The ' (apostrophe) key is a shortcut which automatically wields item a. If
  item a is being wielded, it causes you to wield item b instead, if possible.
  Try assigning the letter a to your primary weapon, and b to your bow or
  something else you need to wield only sometimes. Note that this is just a
  typing shortcut and is not functionally different to wielding these items
  normally.

Ammunition:

  If you would rather pick off monsters from a safe distance, you will need
  ammunition for your sling or bow. Darts are effective when simply thrown;
  other kinds of ammunition require you to wield an appropriate device to
  inflict worthwhile damage. Ammunition has only one "plus" value, which
  affects both accuracy and damage. If you have ammunition suitable for
  what you are wielding, the 'f' command will choose the first lot in your
  inventory, or you can use the 't' command to throw anything. If you are
  using the right kind of hand weapon, you will "shoot" the ammunition,
  otherwise you "throw" it.

  When throwing something, you are asked for a direction. You can either
  enter one of the directions on your keypad, or type '*' and move the
  cursor over your target if they are not in a direct line with you. When
  the cursor is on them, press '.' (period) or delete to target them (you
  can also target an empty space if you want). If you press '>' instead of
  '.', the missile will stop at that space even if it misses, and if the
  target space is water, it may hit anything which might be lurking beneath
  the surface (which would otherwise be missed completely). If you type '.'
  (or del) instead of a direction or '*', or if you target yourself as
  described above, you throw whatever it is at yourself (this can be useful
  when zapping some wands; see later). Also, if you type 'p' instead of a
  direction or '*', you will target your previous target (if still
  possible).

Armour:

  This is also rather important. When worn, most armour improves your Armour
  Class, which decreases the amount of damage you take when something
  injures you. Unfortunately the heavier types of armour also hamper your
  movement, making it easier for monsters to hit you (ie reducing your
  evasion score) and making it harder for you to hit monsters. These effect
  can be mitigated by a high Armour skill. Wearing heavy armour also
  increases your chances of miscasting spells, an effect which is not
  reduced by your Armour skill.

  A Shield normally affects neither your AC or your evasion, but it lets you
  block some of the attacks aimed at you and absorbs some of the damage you
  would otherwise receive from things like dragon breath and lightning
  bolts. Wearing a shield (especially a large shield) makes you less
  effective in hand combat. Shields are more effective when you're fighting a
  small number of foes than when you're surrounded.

  Some magical armours have special powers. These powers are sometimes
  automatic, affecting you whenever you wear the armour, and sometimes must
  be activated with the 'a' command.

  You can wear armour with the 'W' command, and take it off with the 'T'
  command.

Food:

  This is extremely important. You can find many different kinds of food in
  the dungeon. If you don't eat when you get hungry, you will eventually
  die of starvation. Fighting, carrying heavy loads, casting spells, and
  using some magical items will make you hungry. When you are starving you
  fight less effectively as well. You can eat food with the 'e' command.

Magical Scrolls:

  Scrolls have many different magical spells enscribed on them, some good
  and some bad. One of the most useful scrolls is the scroll of identify,
  which will tell you the function of any item you have in your inventory;
  save these up for the more powerful and inscrutable magic items, like
  rings. You can read scrolls (and by doing so invoke their magic) with the
  'r' command.

Magical Potions:

  While scrolls tend to affect your equipment or your environment, most
  potions affect your character in some way. The most common type is the
  simple healing potion, which restores some hit points, but there are many
  other varieties of potions to be found. Potions can be quaffed (drunk)
  with the 'q' command. Try to avoid drinking poisonous potions!

Wands:

  Sometimes you will be lucky enough to find a stick which contains stored
  magical energies. Wands each have a certain amount of charges, and a wand
  will cease to function when its charges run out. You must identify a wand
  to find out how many uses it has left. Wands are aimed in the same way as
  missile weapons, and you can invoke the power of a wand by 'z'apping it.

Rings:

  Magical rings are among the most useful of the items you will find in the
  dungeon, but can also be some of the most hazardous. They transfer various
  magical abilities onto their wearer, but powerful rings like rings of
  regeneration or invisibility make you hunger very quickly when activated.
  You can put on rings with the 'P' command, and remove them by typing 'R'.
  You can wear up to two rings simultaneously, one on each hand; which hand
  you put a ring on is immaterial to its function. Some rings function
  automatically, while others require activation (the 'a' command).

  Amulets are similar to rings, but have a different range of effects (which
  tend to be more subtle). Amulets are worn around the neck, and you can
  wear only one at a time.

Staves:

  There are a number of types of magical staves. Some enhance your general
  spellcasting ability, while some greatly increase the power of a certain
  class of spells (and possibly reduce your effectiveness with others).
  Some are spell staves, and hold spells which you can cast without having
  to memorise them first, and also without consuming food. You must wield a
  staff like a weapon in order to gain from its power, and magical staves
  are as effective as +0 quarterstaves in combat. Spell staves can be
  Invoked with the 'I' command while you are wielding them.

Books:

  Most books contain magical spells which your character may be able to learn.
  You can read a book with the 'r' command, which lets you access a
  description of each spell, or memorise spells from it with the 'M' command.
  Some books have other special effects, and powerful spellbooks have been
  known to punish the attentions of incompetent magicians.

Carrion:

  If you manage to kill a monster delicately enough to avoid scattering bits
  of it around the room, it may leave a corpse behind for you to play with.
  Despite the fact that corpses are represented by the same '%' sign as
  food, you can't eat them without first cutting them into pieces with the
  'D' command, and being extremely hungry helps as well. Even then, you
  should choose your homemade food with great care.

Miscellaneous:

  These are items which don't fall into any other category. You can use many
  of them by wielding and 'I'nvoking them. You can also use some other
  special items (such as some weapons) by invoking them in this way.

Racial Items:

  Some items have been crafted by members of a gifted race, and have special
  properties. In addition, items made by a specific race work better in the
  hands of people of that race.

  Dwarven weapons and armours are very durable, and do not rust or corrode
  easily.

  Orcish bows/crossbows are particularly effective in combination with orcish
  arrows/bolts.

  Elven armour is unusually light, and does not affect the dodging or stealth
  of its wearer to the extent that other armours do. Elven cloaks and boots
  are particularly useful to those who wish to be stealthy, and elven bows are
  particularly effective in conjunction with elven arrows.

Getting Items:

  You pick items up with the ',' (comma) command and drop them with the 'd'rop
  command. When you are given a prompt like "drop which item?" or "pick up
  <x>?", if you type a number before either the letter of the item, or 'y' or
  'n' for yes or no, you will drop or get that quantity of the item.

  Typing 'i' gives you an inventory of what you are carrying. When you are
  given a prompt like "Throw [or wield, wear, etc] which item?", you can type
  the letter of the item, or you can type '?' or '*' to get an inventory list.
  '?' lists all appropriate items, while '*' lists all items, appropriate or
  not. When the inventory screen is showing "-more-", to show you that there
  is another page of items, you can type the letter of the item you want
  instead of space or enter.

  You can use the adjust command (the '=' key) to change the letters to which
  your possessions are assigned. This command can be used to change spell
  letters as well.

  Some items can be stickycursed, in which case they weld themselves to your
  body when you use them. Such items usually carry some kind of disadvantage:
  a weapon or armour may be damaged or negatively enchanted, while rings can
  have all manner of unpleasant effects on you. If you are lucky, you might
  find magic which can rid you of cursed items.

  Items like scrolls, potions and some other types each have a characteristic,
  like a label or a colour, which will let you tell them apart on the basis of
  their function. However, these characteristics change between each game, so
  while in one game every potion of healing may be yellow, in another game
  they might all be purple and bubbly. Once you have discovered the function
  of such an item, you will remember it for the rest of the current game. You
  can access your item discoveries with the '\' key.

  A very useful command is the 'v' key, which gives you a description of what
  an item does. This is particularly useful when comparing different types of
  weapons, but don't expect too much information from examining unidentified
  items.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  RELIGION
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are a number of Gods, Demons and other assorted Powers who will accept
your character's worship, and sometimes give out favours in exchange. You can
use the '^' command to check the requirements of whoever it is that you
worship, and if you find religion to be an inconvenience you can always
renounce your faith (use the 'a' command - but some Gods resent being
scorned!).

The 'p' command lets you pray to your God. Anything you do while praying, you
do in your God's name - this is how you dedicate your kills or corpse-
sacrifices ('D' command) to your God, for example. Praying also gives you a
sense of what your God thinks of you, and can be used to sacrifice things at
altars.

To use any powers which your God deems you fit for, access the abilities menu
with the 'a' command; God-given abilities are listed as invocations.

Some classes start out religious; others have to pray at an altar to dedicate
themselves to a life of servitude. There are altars scattered all over the
dungeon, and your character has heard rumours of a special temple somewhere
near the surface.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 MUTATIONS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Although it would doubtless be a nice thing if you could remain genetically
pure, there are too many toxic wastes and mutagenic radiations in the Dungeon
for that to be possible. If your character is so affected by these that he or
she undergoes physiological change, you can use the 'A' command to see how
much of a freak they've become and the 'a' command to activate any mutations
which can be controlled.

You can also become mutated by overusing certain powerful enchantments,
particularly Haste (not the kind you get from being berserk) and Invisibility,
as your system absorbs too much magical energy - but you would have to spend
almost all of your time hasted or invisible to be affected. However, some
powerful items radiate dangerous levels of magical energy. More often than
not, the mutations caused by magical radiations express harmfully.

Any demonic powers your character may have are listed in red; these are
permanent and can never be removed. If one of your powers has been augmented
by a mutation, it is displayed in a lighter red colour.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            SPELLCASTING
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Magical spells are a very important part of surviving in the dungeon. Every
character class can make use of magical spells, although those who enter the
dungeon without magical skills must practise by reading scrolls before they
can attempt spellcasting.

Spells are stored in books, which you will occasionally find in the dungeon.
Each spell has a Level, which denotes the amount of skill required to use it
as well as indicating how powerful it may be. You can only memorise a certain
number of levels of spells; type 'M' to find out how many. When you gain
experience levels, you can memorise more, and you will need to save up for
several levels to memorise the more powerful spells. When you cast a spell,
you temporarily expend some of your magical energy as well as becoming
hungrier (although more powerful spellcasters hunger less quickly from using
magic).

High level spells are difficult to cast, and you may miscast them every once
in a while (resulting in a waste of magic and possibly dangerous side-
effects). Your chance of failing to cast a spell properly depends on your
skills, your intelligence, the level of the spell and whether you are wearing
heavy armour. Failing to cast a spell exercises your spell skills, but not by
as much as casting it successfully.

Many of the more powerful spells carry disadvantages or risks; you should read
the spell description (obtained by reading the spellbook in which you found
the spell) before casting anything.

Be careful of magic-using enemies! Some of them can use magic just as well as
you, if not better, and often use it intelligently.




A full list of the commands available to you can be accessed by typing '?'
(question mark). If you don't like them, they can be changed by the use of:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            MACROS/KEYMAPS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can change the keys used to perform specific functions by editing the
macro.txt file (or creating a new one). The K: line indicates a key, and the
A: line assigns another key to that key's function.

You can also redefine keys in-game with the ` key, and save them with the ~
key.

(Thanks to Juho Snellman for this patch)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                MONSTERS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the caverns of Crawl, you will find a great variety of creatures, many of
whom would very much like to eat you. To stop them doing this, you will need
to fight. To attack a monster, stand next to it and move in its direction;
this makes you attack it with your wielded weapon. Of course, some monsters
are just too nasty to beat, and you will find that discretion is often the
better part of valour.

Some monsters can be friendly; friendly monsters will follow you around and
fight on your behalf (you gain 1/2 the normal experience points for any kills
they make). You can command your allies using the '!' key, which lets you
either shout to attract them or tell them who to attack.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         MISCELLANEOUS STUFF
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The scores file does not have to be present (as of v2.02), and is not included
in the distribution. You can unpack the zip file into your old crawl directory
and the new version will keep using the old scores file (scores files from any
version are usable by any later version).

The initfile, INIT.TXT, lets you set various options affecting the game's user
interface, like the conditions for Autopickup and a default name for your
character. You can alter it with any reputable text editor.

As of 2.60, a -c command line switch activates the alternative character set
for non-IBM graphics displays. A -nc switch activates the non-IBM char set
and, for Linux systems, disables colour.

Crawl is available for a number of different systems, including Linux, DOS,
the Mac, etc.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           SAVED GAMES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

One strange thing you may notice about Crawl is that it does not keep your
saved games if you die. This is not a bug, it is a feature! If you could
restore your game after dying, you would probably finish the game rather
quickly and lose interest, because most of the fun in Crawl is in the
discovery of its bizarre secrets while taking risks with your characters. It
is possible to cheat by messing around with the save files, but you're only
cheating yourself out of experiencing this game as it was supposed to be
played. 

